# Restructured NGSIM Dataset to Include Surrounding Vehicles' Attributes
 
This study uses Next Generation Simulation dataset (NGSIM) from Interstate 80 freeway (I-80) in Emeryville, California [62], [63]. I-80 freeway at this location has six freeway lanes, a high-occupancy vehicle lane (HOV), and a ramp. NGSIM trajectory data has been collected by FHWA in 2005 by a set of synchronized cameras on the freeway ( Figure 3). The length of the recorded roadway sections is 1,640 ft. The dataset includes trajectory data for about 2,700 vehicles with 10 Hz resolution (i.e. 10 observations per second). In this study, we used reconstructed version of NGSIM data [61]. In the reconstructed NGSIM, measurement errors and noises have been removed by mathematical algorithms [77], [78]. This dataset has been used by several car following studies [59], [79]–[81] and it is publicly available from the Multitude Project website [61].

Reconstructed NGSIM dataset has been restructured to include attributes of the surrounding vehicles. Surrounding vehicles in this study are the leading vehicle, 2nd vehicle ahead, back vehicle, and leading vehicles on the adjacent lanes as shown on Error! Reference source not found.. The surrounding vehicles’ attributes are defined as vehicle ID, location, velocity, acceleration, velocity difference (i.e. velocity difference between the subject vehicle and its surrounding vehicles), headway (i.e. the bumper to bumper distance between the subject vehicle and its surrounding vehicle). Since, no dataset with this information exists, NGSIM is restructured by a R code to generate this information.  Vehicles data has been filtered to only passenger vehicles (i.e. only pair of passenger-passenger vehicles excluding heavy vehicles). Data for those subject vehicles changing lanes has been removed to control for the impact of lane changing. Observations with missing data have also been removed. 

Drivers in different lanes may react differently to their surrounding vehicles. As an example, drivers on HOV lane may pay less attention to vehicles on the other lanes since HOV lane is isolated from the rest of the highway. So, CF models are compared on each lane independently. Therefore, NGSIM data has been divided to groups of vehicles on HOV, left most lane, middle lanes, and right most lane with 27,240, 72,000, 103,650, and 72,240 observations respectively. This study uses about 300,000 cleaned observations in total, while most CF models in the literature are calibrated or trained by less than 50,000 observations. 

